# Human-Language_Tech
This is the git for my human language technologies class (CS 4395.001)

# Assignment 0: Overview of NLP
For this assignment I had to set up my github for the class and write a small [overview](Overview_of_NLP.pdf) of natural language processing.

# Assignment 1: Text Processing in Python
For this assignment I had to read in and process data from a .csv file in python. I had to make sure that everything was formatted correctly. To run it using the command prompt, navigate to the folder the file is in and type in **python Homework1_irk180000.py** followed by the location of the data. For me the full command looked like **python Homework1_irk180000.py Data\data.csv** but it may look different depending where you have the data located. I really liked processing text in python. It felt a lot easier than Java in my opinion, as the regex import made a lot of it easier. I had some difficulty figuring out how to iterate through the list so that I could make sure all the inputted data was correctly formatted but that was most likely due to my lack of experience in python, not by any fault of python itself. I was mostly overthinking it. I overall feel a lot more confident in python and my ability to figure out what I need to do to program in it. Overall, its an easy language to learn and it makes sense to me. This is the [program](https://github.com/wttkirby/Human-Language_Tech/blob/main/Assignment_1/Homework1_irk180000.py).

# Assignment 2: Word Guess Game
For this assignment I had to use NLTK to explore a text file and familiarize myself with the given tools. After using various tools imported from NLTK I made a simple word guessing [game](https://github.com/wttkirby/Human-Language_Tech/blob/main/Assignment_2/Homework2_IRK180000.py). To use the program it is similar to assignment one as you must go to the command prompt and write **python Homework2_IRK180000.py anat19.txt**, but should run normally after that point.

# Assignment 3: WordNet
For this assignment I had to explore WordNet, SentiWordNet, and collocation. This helped introduce new topics and was generally pretty interesting. I used various words in conjunction with the previously mentioned libraries and concepts to learn about how words are catagorized when processing them for use with computers and chatbots. This is the [pdf](https://github.com/wttkirby/Human-Language_Tech/blob/main/Assignment_3/Portfolio%20Component%203_%20Wordnet.pdf) of my notebook. If you would like to download the file and put in your own inputs look in this [folder](https://github.com/wttkirby/Human-Language_Tech/tree/main/Assignment_3).